# ADR026 - 

- **Status**: Draft
- **Date**: 2025-02-05
- **Author**: Joshua Taylor

## Decision

<!-- 
    In a few sentences, describe the decision taken. 
-->

## Context

An objective has been set for the FH programme, to be completed by March 2025,
to consolidate the 'Find' and 'Connect' services into a single service. 

The existing structure has 'Connect' showing local authority (LA) services and
voluntary, community and faith services (VCFS); whereas 'Find' only shows LA
services. 'Connect' is additionally only available for logged in users who have
been granted access.

The new 'single directory' service will show both LA services and VCFS in a
public directory. It will also contain the 'Request for Support' features behind
a login, although initially these will be disabled for users. The existing
services would then be retired or cut down as necessary. 

An approach for transitioning 'Find' and 'Connect' to this single service needed
to be decided.

## Options considered

1. (SELECTED) Transform 'Connect' into the new single directory and remove
   'Find'.
2. Build a new component then remove 'Find' and 'Connect'.
3. Transform 'Find' into the new single directory and remove 'Connect'.

## Consequences

<!-- 
    For each of the options above, describe positive and negative consequences
    of selecting that option. Create a new section for each option under a heading.

    Remember a law of architecture: There are no solutions, only trade-offs. Make
    sure to include any negative consequences of the selected option.

    e.g.

    ### Option 1 - XXX

    - Consequence 1
    - Consequence 2

    ### Option 2 - XXX

    etc.
-->

### Option 1 - Transform 'Connect' into the new single directory and remove 'Find'

- 'Connect' already has service directory and support request features, so
  would be less work to change it to deliver the new service. 

- 'Connect' is generally easier to maintain, so would be less costly to change
  to accommodate being the single service.

- The existing technical debt and design of 'Connect' would remain to add
  difficulty to future maintenance.

### Option 2 - Build a new component then remove 'Find' and 'Connect'

- The new single directory component would not inherit any existing technical
  debt in either 'Find' or 'Connect'.

- The overall cost of development would be far higher than the other options.

### Option 3 - Transform 'Find' into the new single directory and 'Connect'

- The existing technical debt and design of 'Find' would remain to add
  difficulty to future maintenance.

- 'Find' does not contains support request or login functionality. Adding the
  functionality would be an additional cost of this approach. 

## Advice

<!--
    List of advice gathered to make this decision, including the names and role of 
    advisors and the date each piece of advice was gathered.

    Before submitting a decision, you are expected to gather advice from all team 
    members or stakeholders who will be affected by the decision.
-->

- Aaron Yarborough:
  - It was always the plan to consolidate 'Find' and 'Connect' into a single
    component with all capabilities.
    
  - 'Connect' is the most feature rich and has easier code to maintain; so general
    effort would be lower.

  - Making a new component would give the opportunity to remove some tech debt
    and leave a better designed component. Although it could have also
    introduced some more tech debt.
    
  - A new component would take more time to complete.

  - Transforming 'Find' would be harder since it does not contain request for
    support features.

- Zac King:
  - 